the real problem in society is
not whether we're teaching our
kids enough science because
let's say we started that
tomorrow does that mean
everything's okay if we teach
the thirteen-year-old better
STEM education have a better
stem teacher by going to wait 40
years for that kid to become
president so it and/or member of
Congress so that we now have a
scientifically literate country
no i'm not i'm not that patient
for me the real challenge the
real problem are scientifically
illiterate adults adults are in
charge there five times as many
adults as there are kids in this
country adults wheel resources
adults vote will tell me let's
fix the kids and everything will
be fine
fix the adults then the kids
will be fine my field
astrophysics may be at this
point the only academic field
wear what i do is not count
against me at worst it's just
neutral many other fields of
science spending your time that
you might have been in the lab
talking to the public going on
nighttime talk shows going on
comedic nighttime talk shows is
viewed head as a as a as a as a
violation of the contract
between you and your lab
experiment
I carry two titles on a research
associate in our department of
astrophysics at the American
Museum of Natural History in New
York i'm also director of the
Hayden Planetarium and in that
capacity is fully expected by
everyone around that I would be
talking to the public but more
important
carl sagan basically did this
first there are spotty examples
that preceded him but he did it
in the biggest most significant
way and he cleared the field and
there's blood on that field he
was not warmly received by these
activities what you're gonna be
on The Tonight Show that's isn't
that comedy but you're a
scientist maybe you're not a
serious scientist then there's
scientific cultural pressure
against it at the time but then
what do we notice in my field
that members of Congress would
be ready to vote on some budget
and say wait a minute isn't that
on a space mission that I've
heard about I saw Carl Sagan
talk about that is that what you
might you're my constituents
that what you're telling ya
oh my gosh let's do it and all
of a sudden the tide waters rose
for science funding members of
Congress came to embrace the
methods and tools of science and
the fruits of its discovery
if you feel strongly about your
religious philosophies I will
have nothing to say about it
unless you want to change the
curriculum in a science
classroom and i would ask you I
won't fight you i will ask you
why there's no tradition of
scientists knocking down the
sunday-school door telling the
preacher what to teach that is
never a theist don't even do
that there's no scientist
ratings picketing outside of
your church so that or synagogue
or mosque and that might not
necessarily be true there is no
such tradition so what is the
motivation to try to take a
religious philosophy and
influence what goes on in
science you can get up enough
people to influence school board
ok again I'm an educator i'm
here to tell you the consequence
of that if you substitute
religious philosophy for science
there will be a generation of
people who will not understand
what science is and they will be
intellectually crippled from
contributing to what the
centuries have demonstrated to
be the most efficient engine of
economic growth that has ever
been devised and that is
innovations in science and
technology